[DOC] Document Forced CA Cert Renewal and Key Replacement (#1800)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/book/proc-renewing-ca-certs-manually.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-security.adoc

[id='proc-renewing-ca-certs-manually-{context}']

= Renewing CA certificates manually

> If automatic CA certificate generation is enabled (`generateCertificateAuthority=true`), the cluster CA and clients CA certificates will auto-renew at the start of their respective certificate renewal periods. You can manually renew one or both of these certificates before the certificate renewal period begins, if required for security reasons. A renewed certificate uses the same private key as the old certificate.

Reviewer: I think this might confuse people since this is indeed `generateCertificateAuthority=true`, but it is also the default. So even without this being in their Kafka CR, they are still using automatic CA generation. We should probably clarify that. Also, there is a separate value for clients and cluster CAs. Do we have some chapter in the docs to link to for clarification and more details?

Reviewer 2: Agree, adding that when we talk about a property in a CR we should describe the entire "path" so `Kafka.spec. ....`

Author: Good feedback. I'll update the procedure intro and provide some relevant links. Please re-review after I push the changes.

.Prerequisites

* The Cluster Operator is running.
* A Kafka cluster in which CA certificates and private keys are installed.

.Procedure

> . View a description of the certificate authority `Secret` that contains the CA certificate that you want to renew.

Reviewer: Why is the user supposed to view the Secret? Seem unnecessary / this step doesn't explain it.

.. To view the `Secret` for the cluster CA certificate: 
+ 
[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]
kubectl describe secret _<cluster-name>_-cluster-ca-cert

.. To view the `Secret` for the clients CA certificate
+ 
[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]
kubectl describe secret _<cluster-name>_-clients-ca-cert

> . Annotate the `Secret` by applying the `strimzi.io/force-renew` annotation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Apply the `strimzi.io/force-renew` annotation to the `Secret`.
```

.. To annotate the `Secret` for the cluster CA certificate:
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]
kubectl annotate secret _<cluster-name>_-cluster-ca-cert strimzi.io/force-renew=true

.. To annotate the `Secret` for the clients CA certificate:
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]
kubectl annotate secret _<cluster-name>_-clients-ca-cert strimzi.io/force-renew=true

> The Cluster Operator generates a new CA certificate for the `Secret` that you annotated.

Reviewer: I think we should add note about it being done only in next reconciliation and only during the maintenance window (if configured).

> 

Reviewer: We should probably clarify what impact does it have on clients (they will need to reload the certificates).

Author: Agreed. I'll provide a short explanation and a link to https://strimzi.io/docs/master/#client_applications

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-security.adoc

[id='proc-renewing-ca-certs-manually-{context}']

= Renewing CA certificates manually

> Unless the `Kafka.spec.clusterCa` and `Kafka.spec.clientsCa` objects are set to `false`, the cluster and clients CA certificates will auto-renew at the start of their respective certificate renewal periods. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unless the `Kafka.spec.clusterCa. generateCertificateAuthority ` and `Kafka.spec.clientsCa. generateCertificateAuthority ` objects are set to `false`, the cluster and clients CA certificates will auto-renew at the start of their respective certificate renewal periods. 
```

You can manually renew one or both of these certificates before the certificate renewal period starts, if required for security reasons. 
A renewed certificate uses the same private key as the old certificate.

.Prerequisites

* The Cluster Operator is running.
* A Kafka cluster in which CA certificates and private keys are installed.

> * One or more maintenance time windows are configured for the Kafka cluster.

Reviewer 2: Actually, you can avoid having a maintenance time window. It just means that the renew will be done during the next reconciliation.

.Procedure

* Apply the `strimzi.io/force-renew` annotation to the `Secret` that contains the CA certificate that you want to renew.
+
[cols="3*",options="header",stripes="none",separator=¦]
|===

¦Certificate
¦Secret
¦Annotate command

¦Cluster CA
¦_<cluster-name>_-cluster-ca-cert
m¦kubectl annotate secret _<cluster-name>_-cluster-ca-cert strimzi.io/force-renew=true

¦Clients CA
¦_<cluster-name>_-clients-ca-cert
m¦kubectl annotate secret _<cluster-name>_-clients-ca-cert strimzi.io/force-renew=true

|===

> If a maintenance time window is active, at the next reconciliation the Cluster Operator generates a new CA certificate for the `Secret` that you annotated. 

Reviewer: This is good. But I think I would add one more sentence at the end of this paragraph. Something like _If you are not using the maintenance time window, the new CA certificate will be generated in the next reconciliation._ since right now it could be confusing for users who do not use the maintenance time window at all.

Reviewer 2: Agree. See my comment above about "Prerequisites". Havina "one or more" maintenance time window is not a prerequisite.
